Linux, like all operating systems has a philosophy, give the user complete control.  Like most things in life this approach comes with pros and cons.  The major pro is that the limit of what can be created using Linux is the creativity of the programmer and to a greater extent the global community of programmers.  The major con being there are no safeguards from destroying the everything that allows the operating system to run.  Many commands can cause unrecoverable harm to both ones work and the code that allows the system to work.  Linux, unlike most operating systems, has no centralized governing body or company.  It is designed by the global community and is constantly evolving as human ingenuity continues to press against the frontier of what is possible with computers and therefore a vast amount of human activities.  Some might assume that such an unregulated community would create an unruly and ineffective product, but such is simply not the case.  The global community continues to work together to make continuous improvements in an open source environment which uses no propriety software. This constant evolution creates another con, that running a Linux system will require more personal updating of ones system than structured updates from a corporate producer of an operating system.  Fundamentally, Linux empowers the user entrusting his or her knowledge to create and destroy as they please.

A virtual private server (VSP) allows one to build/access a virtual machine (VMs) via the Internet. VSPs are far more cost effective than owning a physical server for ones self, yet might provide comparably limited processing power as the same server could be operating many other VMs.  VSPs provide many advantages.  One they give users complete control of the VMs, often using a more flexible and empowering operating system (OS) like Linux.  VMs have their own operating system and act independently of ones local OS yet are accessible from computer all over the World with an Internet connection.  Linux -as discussed above- allows the user to destroy itself, a dangerous proposition for someone new to Linux, particularly on their local machine.  If one were to accidentally implode their VMs the costs would be much lower.  Hence, VMs provide a safer place to explore.  The operating cost of VMs mean that user must pay to rent space on the servers, yet as I said before this is significantly less than running owns own server.  Plus it might lose you the presidency (to soon, sad times.)

It is a bad idea to work in Linux or Unix while logged in as root.  Root as all administrative privileges.  The power of Linux arises, as discussed above, is that it gives users complete control.  However, that does not mean that users should always leave the castle doors open even though they have the power to do so.  By operating on a user other than root, then permissions have to be granted in order to have the complete power of root.  These protections make users far less vulnerable to security breaches in which someone other than the owner could take command of the operating system. Similarly, just because Linux allows the user to completely destroy itself that does not mean they should not put some barriers to making doing so less easy, even for an experienced Linux user. Also along those lines, bugs in applications could make their way into the underlying code by mistake if one is logged in as root.  The ultimate administrative privileges trickles down through applications.  In summery, unless you are doing something which requires working logged in as root and know what your doing, then working in such creates vulnerabilities from both oneself and others.